---
description: AP Exam practice problem notes
title: AP Prep MC
toc: true
comments: true
author: Amay Advani
layout: notebook
---

# Collaboration Notes

The first questions shows the benefits of assembling a diverse team, are that collaboration that includes diverse backgrounds and perspectives can eliminate the need for software testing.

The second question was how to Facilitate collaboration between group members. The best option was Having all three students write code independently and then having one student combine the code into a program.

The third question was about User participation in software development. While the benefit of having multiple users participate are that Users can provide feedback that can be used to incorporate a variety of perspectives into the software.

# Identifying and correcting errors  

The first question reviewed errors in if/else statement. The answer was to interchange lines 3 and 7 because you had to set the score as a variable before you use it, cause then nothing would happen.

The second question asked which of the following did not return the intended result while testing cases for a list. I didn't really know how to answer this one, so I just looked at the pattern that all of them had, and that  [ -1,0,1 ], was out of the ordinary, because it was the only list with both positive and negative values. 

The third question shows an if statement inside of an if statement. It was asking if all three grades were being represented equally, and in the if statement, there was nothing about getting a grade below 7, like 6, or getting 8. As a result, I decided to click on those options.

# Program and Development Quiz

1) Documentation for procedure with a loop, showing a procedure to print nums to max, where max is a positive integer. The question was basically asking what the loop was doing, and it was printing all the positive odd integers that are less then or equal to max.

2) Documentation for procedure with additions and division. The procedure displays the value of (x+y)/x while the value of the parameter x must not be 0.

3) Documentation for procedure with lists. The procedure displays a swap list elements function that returns a copy of numlist with the elements at indices j and k interchanged. The values of j and k must both be between 1 and length(numlist), inclusive.

# Internet Quiz

1) How information is transmitted on the Internet
The question was : Which of the following best explains how messages are typically transmitted over the Internet?
I answered: The message is broken into packets. The packets can be received in any order and still be reassembled by the recipient’s device. I chose this option because it made the most sense for information to be broken up to be transmitted. I was correct. 

2) Purpose of Internet protocols
The question was : Which of the following is a primary reason for the use of open protocols on the Internet?
I answered : Open protocols provide a way to standardize data transmission between different devices. I chose this option because it had information from the previous question which tells me that this was the right answer. 

3) Relationship between Internet and World Wide Web
The question was : Which of the following best describes the relationship between the World Wide Web and the Internet?
I answered : The World Wide Web is a system of linked pages, programs, and files that is accessed via a network called the Internet. I chose this option because the world web is a system of linked webpages. I was correct. 

