--- 
title: 5.5-5.6 Hacks
author: Amay Advani
layout: default
description: Week 22 Hacks
---

## 5.5 Hacks

1) GitHub provides a variety of open-source licenses from which to choose, including popular options like the Apache License 2.0, the MIT License, and the GNU General Public License (GPL). The user can also choose to create a custom license, although this requires more advanced knowledge of open-source licensing.

2) Most of our group thinks that our code/program in terms of our productivity tools, arent in the running for other people to take and sell, so we concluded that the best type of licensing for our tools is the Open Source GPL License.

3) [Link](https://github.com/DavidVasilev1/leuck-copy)



## 5.6 Hacks

1) Some PII that we have seen in CSP include the login function, most commonly using some sort of username and password. Although, this type requires a backend to store all of the users' data. 

2) I feel like PII are important to identify oneself, especially online, although they are relativly easy to steal and use for unethical things.

3) A strong password is typically one that is at least 12 characters long and includes a mix of uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters. A unique password should not be a commonly used word or phrase and should not be used for multiple accounts. A password that is difficult for others to guess is one that does not contain personal information, such as your name, birthdate, or address.

4) Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption:
Symmetric encryption is a method of encryption where the same secret key is used to both encrypt and decrypt the data. It is fast and efficient but requires the secret key to be securely exchanged between the sender and receiver, which can be a challenge in some cases.

5) Asymmetric encryption, also known as public-key cryptography, is a method of encryption where two different keys are used for encryption and decryption. The sender encrypts the data using the recipient's public key, and the recipient then decrypts the data using their private key. This method is considered to be more secure than symmetric encryption, but it is also slower and requires more processing power.
AWS Key Management Service (KMS) is one of the encryption services used in AWS deployment. It provides a centralized place to manage encryption keys used to encrypt data at rest, such as S3 objects and RDS databases. KMS uses both symmetric and asymmetric encryption algorithms to secure the keys and data.


6) One phishing scheme I have learned about the hard way is email phishing, where the attacker sends a fake email pretending to be from a trustworthy source (e.g., a bank, a government agency, or a popular online service). The email usually contains a link that, when 